Hey there and welcome to Soul Church.
Our prayer is that this message encourages you wherever you may be in life.
We've been hearing so many stories about what God is doing in people's lives and we'd love to hear yours.
So take a second and send your story to stories at soulchurch.com.
Thanks again for joining us today and we hope that you enjoy the message.
God bless.
This is our third Sunday of 2026 and we've got a great guest in the house today.
His name is Pastor Tim Douglas and he oversees Hillsong across the whole of the United Kingdom, 13 campuses, over 10,000 people who attend Hillsong Church.
Tim and I and Chantal and his wife, Nicola, we all went through Bible school together 25 years ago.
So we've known each other a long time and Tim is doing a phenomenal job in building Hillsong Church here.
And I don't know about you, but my life has been changed by Hillsong through their worship through the college.
the conferences.
I think all of our lives are some point have been touched by Hillsong.
So Tim, we want you to know we love you.
God has really anointed this guy with wisdom beyond his years and you're going to hear today some great teaching from the Word of God.
Tim's also navigated the church through some pretty tricky waters over the past few years.
We want to know that you've done such an incredible job.
We commend you today.
We commend you today, Tim.
Would you put your hands together?
Would you give Pastor Tim Douglas a huge warm welcome as he brings God to work?
Thank you, thank you.
Why don't you grab your seats?
Say hi to the person you ignored earlier.
Thank you, team.
It is wonderful to be here.
Yes, I have known John and Chantelle for a long time.
25 years, can you believe it?
Amazing.
I actually celebrated my 44th birthday last Sunday.
I know I still look like I'm 25, but hey, I'm claiming that name of Jesus.
It's getting less and less laughs as I make that joke throughout the years.
That's great.
But it is wonderful to be with you guys.
I love your pastors.
And I don't know if you know this, but we as a church, we are cheering you on.
What is going on here in Norwich in your church is nothing short of a miracle.
And I'm thankful for their vision.
John and Chantelle, I'm thankful for their faith and their courage.
But it also takes a faith field and a faithful bunch of people who say we're up for that.
And you know, when I'm thinking about you guys, there's a church.
in scripture that's Paul references as the Macedonian church.
They're an example for their faith, that example for their generosity, and that's what you guys are doing.
And I don't think there's a church in this nation and across Europe that really is setting the pace when it comes to faith and generosity like you are now.
So thank you, thank you for leading the way you're inspiring us across Hillsong and keep going for it, because this is just the beginning in Jesus' name.
You're your best days are ahead, and you've got more to do for kingdom purpose,
So, you may have never heard of us, you may have never come to Hillsong, you may never.
But you just need to know we are cheering you on, and we're very, very thankful for all that you're doing.
And so, thank for these guys, their friendship, and my chairman for Hillsong, Russ Stake, I'm very thankful Russ and Alithia as well, their good friends could have made it through the first few years without those two, and they're very, very lovely to have in your church.
And so, he also loves hugs, so on the west side, if you get both of them in one go this afternoon, that's a double win.
Are you ready for the word of God?
Fantastic.
I just need to show you one thing.
I bet you never seen a pastor pull up their trousers, but look, look at this.
That's an orange socks, guys.
So, listen, I think the annoying things go to flow that just a little bit more because of my soccer tire today.
And if you don't like the message, it's the socks fault.
So we're all good.
All right, let's, we're going to get into Philippians today, Philippians.
We're going to look at chapter one.
We're going to actually go through the whole chapter.
I'm going to not read the whole thing, but I want to pull out certain scriptures and some thoughts from Paul's letter to the Philippian church.
And there's some modern day correlations between what the church in Philippi was going through and doing and facing when it comes to some of us today.
It's very different to maybe where I grew up.
I definitely, the climate is different to Australia.
See if you haven't picked up the Australian accent, it's there.
I'm Australian by birth, British by choice.
And so it'll be five years since moving here in May.
Best decision ever.
And so the reality is that wherever we are geographically, Sydney, London, Norwich, there's some things that are contextually
similar when it comes to the Word of God and what we can grab from it.
You see, this area called Philippi, when Paul writes this letter, he's actually in prison when he writes this letter.
It's about 60 years after Jesus has died and rose again and ascended.
And then now the church is starting to grow everywhere.
And there's this kind of explosion going on.
You're seeing that here in Norwich.
And Paul writes this letter because as the church was exploding, there was some
forces culturally that would come against them.
There was some opposition that he was facing personally that on the surface looked like it was meant to slow the church down.
On the surface looked like it was meant to slow down his ministry.
And so there were some circumstances of going on.
Yet Paul writes this letter into a culture where in Philippi specifically it was like they were proud Roman citizens.
They were not in Rome, but they were proud Romans.
The Roman culture of the day was Caesar is Lord, and everything about the Roman culture needed to be exalted and put first and foremost.
And it's into that backdrop that Paul courageously and boldly says, no, it's not Caesar who is Lord, but it's Jesus who is Lord.
And it's not Caesar's ways at a priority.
It's the ways of Jesus that a priority.
And it goes on to encourage the Philippians to live with boldness, with courage, with faith, and with joy in the things of God.
And if we look around our world today, the prevailing culture or the prevailing narrative of our world is definitely not Jesus is Lord.
It is football is Lord, or it is money is Lord, or it is whatever it is, is your truth is Lord.
And therefore we are people, if we are to put Jesus first, first in our lives, first in our worship, the center of what we do, there's understanding, there's anchors and there's ways that Paul spoke to of how to live that out.
So there's never a time where I think the men and women of God in our nation and this, in your city,
and not meant to be sheepish, pulling back, cowering down, but to be bold, realizing that God is doing something in our nation that is phenomenal.
In our church last year, we saw over 5,500 people make a decision to follow Christ.
Incredible.
Some of you would have seen the first few years what we had to navigate and what God is now birthing in our church, but it's not just us.
What God is doing in you and what he's doing around in our nation now is a time for the men and women of God to rise up, be bold and be courageous and get on with kingdom purpose for which he's got us here.
And so I look at this story and I look at this text and what I find incredibly encouraging that even while Paul is in chains, he's actually freer than the culture that tried to silence him.
And I love that parallel that can be for us.
I'm not sure what's trying to silence you.
I'm not sure if it's your fear, your worry, your doubt.
Maybe there's things going on in your world, in your workplace that feel like they're trying to come against you.
Well, this letter reminds us that we don't have to live according to our circumstances around us, but this letter to the Philippian church is also a letter for us.
that we are not meant to be shaped by circumstances, we're not meant to be shaped by culture, we're not meant to be shaped by fear or the resources or the lack of resource in our lives, but when Jesus is first in our lives, when we truly see him as the source of who we are, then we live with true kingdom purpose, that there's this joy that we can live that's not circumstantial based, and there's a boldness and this sense of being unshakable as we follow him into all that he has for us.
So if you're taking notes in church today, and I hope you are,
Yeah, it might be a verse that comes out, might be a thought that pops in that the Holy Spirit really puts in your heart.
And the other thing is when you take notes in church, maybe you're on a phone, on a note pad, whatever it may be, the Bible says you get bigger houses in heaven.
It's in there, just look it up.
But I believe in the goal we'll speak to you.
And so the time I thought today is unshakable, unshakable, that you and I are meant to live unshakable.
And I'm mindful that it's the third week of January.
And already, I wonder how your new year's resolutions are going.
I wonder, are you still going to the gym?
Are you still on that diet?
Have you still been fasting?
And if we're not getting someone's like, yes, well done.
I see that hand.
But for a lot of us, life is life.
And I'm expecting great things for you and your church.
But the reality is there will be storms that come.
And if we're not careful, we can let ourselves get blown off course or there's shakings that come and we've become shook and we've become maybe a little bit fearful or doubting where God is in our lives.
But I believe there's a way that you and I are called to and meant to and are able to live unshook, unshakable this year in Jesus' name.
And that he would have his purposes in our lives and through this church.
So let's pray.
Father, I thank you for your goodness and your grace in our lives.
And I thank you for the people of soul church.
I thank you, your hand is clearly and evidently on this place and this people.
So Father, I pray for more of your goodness, more of your favor, more of your grace on these incredible men and women of God.
As I continue to reach this place, reach this city and impact the UK and beyond.
Oh God, I pray for more of it in Jesus' name.
So as we come round your word, may you bring inspiration to our lives, may you bring courage, even conviction where it's needed.
Would you have your way in Jesus' mighty name and a faith filled people said,
Amen, amen.
Last year, I have three children.
One is 17.
She now has a job.
She's got a license yesterday.
I mean, what is happening in my life?
I have a 15-year-old and I have a 12-year-old.
And they love roller coasters.
I'm not sure if you love roller coasters, but I definitely used to.
I used to be able to get on as many roller coasters I wanted and it was fine.
Something happened the last several years where my equilibrium has changed.
I mean, I'm from that generation.
I don't know remember if you know the gravitron.
It was in local fairs where it looked like a UFO saucer.
And I mean, this was back in the day before health and safety was a thing.
And there was no harnesses.
There was no seat belts.
You just got on the sucker.
It spun around as fast as you could, throws onto the wall, throws you onto the roof.
And then when it stops, throws you back down, people are coming off with gashes, broken limbs.
We're like, let's go again.
I mean, it was great.
It was a great time to be alive.
And now my kids, they love the thrills.
And so I'm like, yeah, great.
I'll go in there with you.
And it's halfway through the ride.
I'm thinking my lunch is going to come up.
I'm scared.
My knuckles are white.
And they're like waving their arms in the air like they just don't care.
They're having a great old time.
We get off the like, dad, let's do it again.
I'm like, yeah, let's do it again.
I've got four more hours of this.
Wonderful.
Same ride, same twists and turns, two totally different experiences.
And it's the same with life.
We can have the same life, same experiences and come out totally different.
It's like the beam if you're married in here.
where it says, every good marriage is just an over thinker and a stressed out person, married to someone who's laid back without a care in the world.
Don't elbow your partner right now.
Same ride, same life, same experiences, different outcomes or different approaches and different things that we experience.
And for Christians, it can be the same.
Same storms.
same disappointments, same uncertainties, but yet some walk through faith-filled, confident and bold, and others feel like they shrink back and are scared and intimidated.
Well, Hebrews 1039 talks about we are not those who shrink back and are destroyed, but ones who continue to press on to the things of God.
And I pray that our
Our makeup, who we are, will not be intimidated by our culture, the things that oppress us or the things that come against us, the obstacles or the lack that we may have in our lives right now, but we'd be ones who push forward in all that God has for us, realizing that we can live an unshakable life this year.
So I wanna give you four anchors from Philippians chapter one, and we'll dive through and we'll just see where God takes it.
But number one, first unshakable anchor,
that we can have as we live with Jesus as our confidence, as our first priority, I should say, is number one, that we would have an unshakable confidence, an unshakable confidence in God's work.
Philippians chapter one, verse six, verse six, you may be able to quote this, you may have seen it before, it may be familiar to you, but let me read it out, it says this, being confident, everyone say confident.
Being confident of this,
that he who began a good work in you will carry it onto completion until the day of Christ Jesus.
He who started it will finish it in Jesus' name.
See, I wonder if you can quote that verse, but I wonder if you know the context behind Paul writing this.
See, Paul wasn't writing this on a mountaintop moment where every prayer was being answered and he was having it all kind of wrapped up in a nice bow of life.
No, he's writing this from jail.
He is in the midst of uncertainty.
He's not knowing if he's going to be released.
He's not knowing if he's going to have to stay in prison.
He's actually not certain if they're going to put him to death and execute him or if he's going to continue to live.
He doesn't know what's about to happen in his life, but yet watch his words.
He doesn't say, well, being hopeful of this.
He doesn't say, well, maybe God will turn this out and finish his work.
He's not resigned to, well, I'll see what happens.
It is what it is.
No, his words are strong and full of boldness.
He says, no, being confident of this, being confident that what God started, he's going to complete because he understood not just in theory or from a scripture, but he understood in his heart.
He had confidence in God's word, knowing that God is when he starts something, he always finishes it.
He always finishes it.
That's what makes this Jesus' first life an unshakeable experience when our lives are truly planted in Him.
We can be confident in the same thing that our confidence is not in our own abilities.
It's not in our own ways to hold our lives together and hold the circumstances and the seasons of life together.
No, it rests in God's promise to complete His work within us, not just around us, but to complete His work in us.
You know, we have
where we're living at the moment, a bunch of different construction sites going on around.
And it would be unfair and unwise for me as I'm walking past scaffolding and different things going on where I'm like judging the architect's job by a work that's in the middle of the progress.
There's missing walls, there's missing roofs, there's missing windows.
It's all looking like in the middle of it, a bit of a mess.
But it's not until you see it completed where you go, oh, that guy or that girl, they knew what they were doing.
What a wonderful master piece.
In the same way our lives can feel the same.
Maybe these things feel like there's missing parts, there's unfulfilled dreams, there's unanswered prayers.
Maybe there's some certain things that already, by the third week of January, there's some things that have come out of nowhere.
And it's like, man, my life feels like it's a bit of a mess.
It feels like there's incompleteness all around the place.
Well, the beautiful thing when we have confidence in an unshakable confidence in God's work is we can have the same confidence as Paul.
See, God doesn't abandon his building sites, but he finishes what he's got going.
And maybe you are in that zone where things are moving slow.
There's opposition that's unexpected or there's unfulfilled dreams and hopes and desires that you feel like they were given by God.
Can I encourage you?
If your life is feeling like a bit of a building site today, it's just a good understanding that God has not finished what he started.
that your dreams are not wasted, that your calling isn't finished, that he's not done yet, but he will finish what he started.
It's not time to reduce your faith or start to justify the circumstance around you, but to dig deep, hold onto the things of God and realize he has not finished yet, but he's begun it, and he will carry it on to completion in Jesus' name.
Amen?
Second thing, second anchor that we can understand and live with is an unshakable perspective.
an unshakeable perspective that he turns prisons into pulpits.
Philippians chapter one and goes on in verse 12, Paul writes, he says, now I want you to know brothers and sisters that what has happened to me actually served to advance the gospel.
See his perspective here, he's in chains.
He's in jail for talking about that Jesus is Lord.
He's just been doing what God has called him to do, but yet he is in the middle of prison for it.
And he says, as a result,
It has become clear throughout the whole palace guard and to everyone else that I'm in chains for Christ.
He's like, hey, they know that I'm not in here because of what I'm accused of.
I'm here for Jesus.
And because of my chains, most of the brothers and sisters have become confident in the Lord.
And not only that, they dare all the more to proclaim the gospel without fear.
Paul is literally in prison.
He's chained up from the outside.
It looks like his ministry is done.
His ministry is over.
But can you hear his perspective?
He's not, it's all over how am I going to get out and pray for these chains to disappear.
No, he doesn't pray to get out.
He doesn't pray for the circumstance to change.
He says, my circumstances have actually happened to me to serve the advancement of the gospel.
The very thing that looked like was meant to silence him became the very amplification for the gospel and the call of God on his life.
Paul's chains didn't silence him, they gave him simply a new audience that guided placed him in.
See, when Jesus is at the center of our lives, when he is first in our lives, even your prisons become pulpits.
Even what makes you feel small, even what things feel like setbacks, they can become the place where Jesus, he turns them around to become platforms in our life where they become pulpits where you testify to the grace of God of what he's doing.
It is the biggest trap of the enemy to make you feel like there's no way out.
To make you feel like that setback, the opposition, the heartache, the disappointment,
It is an absolute attack of the enemy to try and dislodge you and disconnect you from the call of God in your life.
And the wonderful thing about Jesus and his grace and his goodness and his overall, if we truly believe it, it just means what you've got when Jesus turns up, oh, he gives you a different perspective on it.
That what you realize is I don't have to be even led out of this circumstance, because when Jesus is here, it can all turn around, not even changing the circumstances, but you can turn around and you can change it.
I'm very mindful as I was praying for you
This morning, there's people here in, you know, there's things that have happened in your life where you feel like you're in prison.
Maybe there's things that feel like they've got you bound.
Maybe it's mindsets.
Maybe there's certain behaviors and addictions that just feel like they've got you trapped.
Maybe there's certain relationship patterns that you just keep going around and it's like, man, how am I ever going to break these cycles?
Things that have been spoken over your life, even for long ago, and they just keep replaying over in your life.
I'm going to pray for freedom today.
I'm going to pray for absolute incredible freedom.
There's things that are in this room that you've carried in here that are staying in this room.
There's these things that are going to be holding you back.
They're staying in your seat today.
You're walking out here free and free indeed.
And here's, and here's the deal.
And here's what Paul teaches us about perspective that you're meant to be free.
And I know everyone like you're like, yes, I want that for my life.
But here's the secret about kingdom and kingdom relationships that your freedom is not just for your sake.
It's to become a platform and a pulpit which gives freedom to others as well.
Because like John said this morning, this is the smallest soul church is ever going to be.
And there's going to be people who walk in facing opposition, circumstances, lack, you know, the temptations and stuff that they've got in their own life.
And the freedom that you're going to find, you're not meant to go, hey, Instagram selfie, look how awesome I am.
It's meant to be that we find people who are also in that prison and go, hey, if God can do it for me, He can do it for you.
Let me bring my faith and add it to your journey.
And we're going to walk out here free in Jesus' name.
And this is how the people of God are meant to move, that we would have an unshakable perspective, understanding what God can do in our lives.
Number three, when Jesus is our focus, when He's truly our priority, we can live with an unshakable courage, an unshakable courage.
To live is Christ, Paul talks about unto dies gain.
Philippians chapter one in verse 20, he says, I eagerly expect and hope that I will in no way be ashamed, but will have sufficient courage so that now, as always, Christ will be exalted in my body, whether by life or by death, for to me to live is Christ and to die is gain.
Philippians, it's a wonderful book, it's only short, but in this chapter,
I think this is kind of the linchpin of this first chapter.
Where Paul is trying to talk and say, hey, as a Christian, man or God, woman or God, you can't lose.
Whether you live or you die, whether you're going to be in eternity with Jesus or whether you're here on earth and living with Jesus, you can't lose.
See, this statement of Paul, it's not a resignation.
It's not like, well, I'll just give up, I guess I can go there or I have to stay and do what God's called me to do.
No, it's a courage statement.
Paul is saying, if I live,
then I get to get on with the purpose of God, and that's a win.
And if I die, I get to go be with Jesus, but either way, I win.
And that's what makes this Jesus' first life unshakable.
When he's at the center, neither the things of life and the circumstance of life are not even the threat of death, one day can move us to the point of fear, because we know either we're gonna be with Jesus for eternity, or he's with us now.
But I think it's more than just the physical death.
You know, the reality is there's every single one of us, we face the deaths of life.
in different seasons.
Maybe it's the death of a career or what seems like that.
Maybe there's things that have gone wrong in your business and it just seems like it's coming to ruin.
Maybe this is a death of a relationship and it's like, man, how is this ever going to be restored or reconciled?
Then we all face different deaths.
Maybe the doctors have given you a report already this year and it's like, man, how am I going to get over this news?
Well, you've just been in this cycle for long.
I've just, man, I can't get out of this because it's emotional cycle and it feels like, man, I'm just slowly
kind of letting myself die and the joy and the strength and the confidence and the faith is dying.
I think we all from time to time can face death, but this is what Paul is talking to.
He says that even in moments where it seems like something dies, it seems like a season is over.
It feels like maybe the storm has won, that even in those moments when Jesus first, there is still gain.
There is still gain.
I've watched it over and over again that so often we can have our plans and our purposes and thinking life is gonna go one way.
You know, we can have the people in here who you're so planned.
You've already got 26 planned, you've got 27 planned, you're up to 2045 or whatever it is.
I mean, you're just so planned.
It's great.
There's others, you're like, I don't know what today's gonna bring and just walking in here.
Hey, it's church, it's great.
But so often even when our plans don't go according to plan, it can rock us.
It's like, man, I didn't expect that.
And if we're not careful, we hold so tightly, God, I wanted it this way.
But when we release that, when we release our own outcomes, say, God, you knew,
what was going to happen is let me see it your way.
Let me have courage to face it the way that you want me to face it.
It's amazing how there can be gain in that.
Have you ever thought that heaven's not surprised by your circumstance?
It's like maybe you have lost a job.
God's not getting his angels around going, who missed that?
How did this happen?
This wasn't on the list.
That's not how it works.
It's like you've got a bit of bad news coming away.
God's not surprised going, oh no.
What are we going to do about that?
No, God's got your answer already.
And the quicker we move from our perspective and grabbing and holding on to God as our courage, it's amazing how we can look these things in the face and go, OK, God, I know you've got to plan.
Let me see the gain out of this.
It's not that we deny the facts, but we let our faith rise in spite of what we see.
Romans talks about that Abraham, even though he was of old age, and he faced the facts.
He faced the facts.
It talks about he faced what was going on, but yet his faith did not waver.
Oh, I pray that we meet those kind of men and women of God who can stare the fact straight in the face and go, hey, I don't know how my God's turning this around, but I've got courage to believe he will.
So I ain't moving till he does.
I'm not letting my faith wave because I know who my God is and I know what he does.
He finishes what he starts in Jesus' name.
Number four.
Our fourth anchor that we would have an unshakable purpose.
unshakable purpose, and I think this is living for others.
That the Christian life is never meant to us to be about me and my own and me and first.
It's always got an others attached to it, a kingdom purpose attached to it.
He goes on just towards the end of this first chapter in verse 23.
He says, I'm torn between the two, talking about going to be with Jesus and staying.
He says, I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far.
He's saying, hey, it is better to go be with Jesus in eternity.
That's going to be far better.
But he says, but it is more necessary for you that are a mane in the body.
Convinced of this, he says, I know that I'll remain and I'll continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith.
He's saying, hey, honestly, I'd rather be with Jesus.
Eternity with him sounds like a far better deal.
I mean, he's been shipwrecked, he's been in prison, he's been flogged, all these things.
He's like, I think heaven sounds like a better option right now, but that's not what I want.
But it's not what I need.
This life is not about my preferences.
It's about God doing something in me so it can reach other people.
And that's unshakable purpose.
Real courage isn't just dying for Jesus or being a martyr.
It's about living for others.
It's about truly living for others.
It's choosing the harder road so that someone else might find Jesus.
It's choosing the more selfless life so that someone else might find his goodness, his grace, his beautiful forgiveness.
His unsurpassing peace over everything else that is going on in our lives.
That's what we're meant to be about church.
Not coming into our services, pull up the drawbridge, have a great time, get back out there and go into the big bad world, no.
So we come in here, magnify God, remind ourselves who he is, get into the word every day of our lives, get in the spirit into our hearts and make sure we're fueled by these things and then get on with the kingdom purpose that he's got for us.
You're not meant to live a small selfish life.
Not meant to.
That's not why God has saved you.
That's not not why He's called you for.
Following Jesus is not any eternal insurance policy, where we just get to heaven one day.
Now there is an impact that He's called you to now.
There is a purpose that He's called you for.
All those things and living for ourselves, it ultimately ends up being unfulfilling.
Each one of us, we have gifts, we have talents.
There's resource that you have in your lives, not for your own benefit, but for others, for kingdom purpose.
Matthew chapter 25, I don't have time to read it out, but it talks about this.
Jesus says, the kingdom of God, the kingdom, the rule and the reign of God, it is like, the parables often talk about what the kingdom of God is like.
And he talks about this story about the three servants that receive different talents.
One receives five, one receives two, one receives one talent.
And when Jesus was saying this story to his audience at the time, they would have known something that we don't.
See, a talent wasn't your dancing skills like, I know, amazing.
Western theater production Tim.
There we go.
That's about as good as it gets guys.
Better as good as it gets.
He wasn't talking about that.
Wasn't talking about your singing, your dancing, your business mind, not that.
He was talking to this story and the talent was a financial amount.
Often we can read that story and think, man, the guy with the one talent, he got messed up.
Like, that was a bit harsh.
But if you understand, and the audience at the time would understand this story, that the person who was given one talent received 20 years, a lifetime of wages.
And so the person with two, 40 years, the person with five, 100 years of wages, first thing the audience heard, and they would have understood this, that Jesus wasn't talking about unfair distribution, he was talking about outrageous generosity.
And what, there was no room to go, well, that guy should be sad about what he got, no, because there was kingdom purpose, always starts with kingdom generosity.
Kingdom generosity in our lives well before this kingdom responsibility.
And so often what happens in Christian lives, we look at left and right and go, well, they've got more than me.
That's unfair.
Or, man, I wish I had their talent or I wish I had their gifting.
I wish I had that.
And then it undermines and devalues what God has put in our own lives.
Understanding that God has given you everything you need, everything you need for your calling and your kingdom purpose.
And what would happen if the people of God stopped looking left and right?
Stop scrolling through, comparing, and just realize, God, would you give me kingdom perspective to see what you've put in my hand?
And let me put it to use.
Let me put it to use.
There will be kingdom purposed attached to what he's put in our lives and put in our hearts in Jesus' name.
And he gives us a blueprint.
Paul then goes, the last thing about this story is he gives us a blueprint for how to live this way.
So in verses 27 to 28, I'll read these last scriptures out to you.
Paul says this, whatever happens,
Sometimes I wish the Bible was written differently.
Don't you wish those disclaimers?
It says whatever happens, conduct yourselves manner in a manner worthy of the gospel.
Whatever happens unless, you know, you've had a bad night's sleep.
Whatever happens unless, you know, you've had a big bill from the tax office that week.
Whatever happens unless, but there's none.
There's no disclaimers.
So whatever happens, conduct yourself in a manner worthy of the gospel of Christ.
Then whenever
I come and see you or only hear about you in my absence.
I will know, watch as here's the blueprint, that you stand firm with one spirit, that you're striving together as one to the faith of the gospel and that you would live without being frightened in any way by those who oppose you.
Whatever happens, life is unpredictable.
Circumstances change.
There'll be things that come against us in our lives, and we can't control the whatever, but Paul says the testimony of living a life that whatever happens that we live in a manner worthy of the gospel, that's gonna be attractive to people.
And he says, these are the three traits of an unshakable people.
He says, they stand firm in the spirit, not in our own strength, not in our own wisdom, not in our own efforts or our own abilities, but in the strength of the spirit.
That's why I love it as a church, I've been fasting, and you've been praying that, like John said,
If you haven't started, it's not too late.
Get in the things of God.
Just try to say, hey, my flesh ain't gonna win this year.
I'm gonna be Jesus first and we focused on Him this year.
Let yourself be fueled by the power of the Spirit.
That we would be understanding that when it's the Spirit of God leading us and guiding us and strengthening us, whatever happens is it doesn't even matter.
It's a non-starter, it's a non-issue because we know who's we are and we know who's got us.
The second thing he says is you strive together as one.
Strive together as one.
To unity, it makes the church unstoppable.
It makes the church unstoppable.
And I love this about what God is doing here, but I love that you're also a kingdom church.
That we are not soul church and you are not Hillsong church, but there's something that says, hey, we're in this together.
We're gonna cheer you on what God's got in your life and your house, and we're gonna cheer you, and I believe the same is for us.
And as we play our part in the kingdom of God, we push back darkness, we see people want for the kingdom of God, and we see them set on fire for His calling and His purpose in their life.
We're in this together.
We strive together, believing and making an effort together so that God would have His way across the United Kingdom at this time.
It's like a rowing crew that only works when everyone pulls in rhythm.
A divided church will stall,
but a united church advances together.
And I pray for unity and more blessing amongst you in Jesus' name.
The third trait he says is that there'd be a bonus, that you would live boldly and unafraid.
There would be people who are unshakable, who would live boldly and unafraid, that we wouldn't cower, that we wouldn't shrink back, that we wouldn't be like, oh, I'm not sure how it's gonna work out.
There would be people who are full of conviction,
and full of faith that can say even if I have no idea how it's going to work out.
But in spite of that uncertainty, like Paul, in jail having no idea how it was going to turn out, he was able to say with boldness and confidence, God finished what he starts and he ain't done yet.
So I'm going to continue to hold on to him.
Paul says that this is what it's meant to live worthy of the gospel.
Not just what we believe, but how you stand, how we work together as kingdom people and how we live fearlessly.
in a world where there is an anxiety pandemic, where there's a depression, anxieties all around.
I think the people of God will be able to find victory through these things and say, hey, that storm, it's massive, but I'm going to smile at it anyways.
I have no idea how it's going to turn out, but I know who's with me and who's in my boat and it's all going to be okay.
That we will be people of God, called Mark by our courage, by our perspective.
Then we realize whatever prison might come our way.
that He's going to turn into a place of freedom and a pulpit which we stand and kick the devil in the teeth and say, this is what my God has done.
That this would be a people of God, in Norwich at this time.
For generations are going to thank God that you are here and that you're building a path and building a legacy that people will be able to inherit and stand in the days to come.
There will be faith-filled men and women of God, courageous and bold for what He's done.
That our eyes wouldn't be on ourselves and our own efforts and our own intentions.
but we'd understand that God wants to do something in us and complete something in us so that we'd reach those around us.
I'll finish this story and the rest of the team can come up.
We're going to pray.
But there's a guy named John Harper and he was a evangelist and he'd lost his wife and he just had his daughter in America.
Some churches in America had invited him to come across and do some crusades.
And so he hopped on a unfortunate ship called the Titanic.
And he was off to go preach the gospel.
And he was a widower and so he's there and we know the story of the Titanic.
It hits the iceberg.
And there's accounts that were being written about him and what his last moments were like on that ship.
I mean, if it's me, I'm probably thinking if my daughter has lost her mum already that that's where I am.
Well, John Harper history tells us that he puts his daughter and his sister who was traveling with them into a lifeboat.
And it begins to run and scream across the decks of the Titanic saying, women and children and the unsaved into the lifeboats.
As the ship goes down, he's got a life preserver on, and the account goes on to tell us that he kept swimming through the frosty waters, trying to get as many people saved in those last moments in his final breaths.
His last person that he spoke to, he walks up, he swum up to, and he had his life jacket on, and he said, hey, listen, do you know Jesus?
Are you saved?
And the man floating without a life jacket said, no, no, I'm not.
So John Harper's last act was to take off his life jacket, give it to him and said, well, you need this more than I. I pray that you'd meet Jesus.
And that was his last, last effort goes to be with Jesus in the icy waters of the Atlantic.
There's a couple of years later that there was a gathering of the, a reunion of the survivors and John Harper, his last
efforts, not being about himself and his own life, but being convinced and convicted to continue to do the work to reach others, even when the circumstances were full of uncertainty and pain.
The man stood up in that reunion and said, I'm the last convert of John Harper.
And out of that, he brought another revival because of what happened in that person and through his family.
Never underestimate.
Never underestimate what God wants to do in you.
and through you despite whatever your circumstance look like.
Why don't you stand your feet?
Just want to pray for a couple of group of people.
You know, like I said, Abraham, you face the facts.
Bold faith is facing the facts and believing God and daring to believe God anyways.
So I'm going to pray.
For maybe there's things that you're facing right now.
They feel like they're putting you in prison.
They're feeling like they're making you small.
As someone in here, you've just been battling an ongoing crisis.
It's just ongoing.
And it's feeling like it's got you trapped.
There's no way out.
There's other people where you feel like they're just cycle of behaviors and addictions and you keep falling over.
It's like, God, everything about me wants to follow you and bless you and believe in you, but you keep falling short.
Maybe the things that have just happened to you, they're no fault of your own, but they just keep replaying in your mind, and it's got you feeling like you're in prison.
Others, you just replaying what people have spoken over your life, even sometimes decades ago, that someone said over your life, and it just, you think about every now and then, or, you know, it's almost like the enemy brings it to mind sometimes, and it's got you trapped.
I'm gonna pray for freedom to be in this place.
Like I said, I'm gonna pray that you're gonna walk out of this place, different to which you came in.
I'm talking to Christians, I'm talking to people, you still love God, you're still getting to heaven, but you've been carrying things that are gonna make you small, or feeling like they're trying to make you small.
I believe today it stops in Jesus' name, that we're gonna see freedom in Jesus' name, that the things have been sent by the pit of hell to come against you, maybe free, and free indeed.
Not just so you can be like, oh, that's off me, but realize that that's the very place that God's gonna start to use you, that your testimony is gonna be break through for others.
want to just close your eyes right where you're at.
Maybe you've got immediate things you're facing.
I'm not sure what your storm looks like or your circumstances are.
But if you're in that place, you're like, you know what?
I've just had enough of this.
I've tried it all.
But I just need God to come in and spring the trap.
I'm going to pray for you.
The second part of my prayer is going to be maybe a bit different.
I'm going to pray that even if that storm doesn't cease right now, even if the chains don't come unlocked right now,
I'm gonna pray that while you're there, you're gonna perspective is gonna change and that you're gonna be different.
The circumstance may not change, but you are.
I pray and believe with you that you're gonna walk out into emails of miracles and phone calls this week if circumstances change.
But what I'm more praying for is that you change.
Is that your boldness and your courage and your perspective
It would almost be like it doesn't even matter for the circumstance to change, because you're walking free, you're walking full of courage, and that the enemy cannot stop you in Jesus' name.
So I'm talking to you right now, why don't you reach out to God?
Maybe it's your hands out in front, maybe it's your hands in the air, but I'm gonna pray that God would come upon you right now.
Father, over every single person, whether it be a storm that's been raging, whether it be feel like there's been an attack of the enemy that's kept them feeling like they're trapped, or even in prison chained up,
First and foremost, God, I thank you that you are the miracle working God.
There is nothing that is too great for you.
to bring breakthroughs and miracles.
I think that you are the one who opens the eyes of the blind, you open the ears of the death, that you are the one who brings dead things back to life.
And in this moment, I thank you that there is miracles that are going to be taking place in people's finances, in people's relationships, in their own health and their mental well-being.
May there be freedom in your house today in Jesus name.
May people walk out of here boldly and confidently healed, knowing that you are on their side, that you are their strength, that you are their joy, that you are their peace, that you are their
strong tower.
Look what I thank you that you can turn.
Things around with it is no way.
So I thank you for it that you are our healer, our provider, our deliverer, that all that we have is in you.
So God, would you move on behalf of your people who are praying Jesus' name?
Move, I pray God.
There will be freedom made of things that have been worrying and troubling and captivating.
Stay in their seat today and they walk out of here different knowing who they are and it just means that you haven't finished what you started yet, God.
And God on top of that, I pray that even if people have to wrestle.
for another week, or another month, or even another year.
God, I pray that they would see differently.
They would have eyes of faith, eyes of confidence, that what has come against them or what they are and surrounded is, is not gonna define them, it is not gonna restrict them, is not gonna stop the call of God and the influence that you've called them to have.
I pray that today, prisons become pulpits, what has been setbacks, what has been opposition become places of your fruitfulness and God, your effectiveness in their lives.
May men and women of God rise up in this place,
who don't need circumstances to change, but step out boldly and confident to call the God that you have in their life.
Father, I think that you are faithful, that you've finished what you begin, that you change our perspective, that you are for us and that you're with us and Jesus, that you are our anchor.
May there be transformation in our hearts and in our eyes as we see what you've placed us in and what you have around us.
May there be freedom I pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Last group of people, I've got to pray for, I'm going to hand it back to John.
His friend, I wonder if you know Jesus.
I wonder if you really do.
How are you and God at the moment?
Are you right with God?
Are you walking with Him?
Do you know what it's like to know His goodness and His grace on your life?
Do you know what it's like to know His surpassing peace that is just unbelievable?
Do you know what it's like to live with real purpose?
not just for your own whims, but actually real purpose that changes things.
I wonder if you know how it is to live free, free from guilt, free from shame, free from these things, not to live perfect.
Being a Christian is not about being perfect.
None of us are, but it's about knowing and living with a perfect savior who loves us despite ourselves, despite our faults, despite where we get it wrong.
And in fact, I wonder if you know this, no matter who you are,
No matter what your story has been up until this moment, Jesus loves you.
And He's got an incredible plan for your life.
Despite what you've done, despite what the story has looked like of your life up until this point, God has got incredible plans and purpose for your life.
No matter who you are, and it's all activated on you and I make a decision, a simple decision, a decision to say yes to Jesus, to say yes Jesus, I choose to follow you.
Now here's the thing following Jesus, it's not suddenly you get a lobotomy,
When you pray this prayer, and it's the most powerful prayer, anyone can pray, I'm gonna pray it with people in a minute.
But when you pray this prayer, I wish suddenly you had a different brain.
You'll feel definitely for sure.
But following Jesus, simply making a decision and praying a prayer that says, God, I'm gonna choose to follow you.
And God gets around us, and Christians get around you, and we help discover the mysteries of God, discover the goodness of God, discover the grace of God for life every day from now.
Doesn't mean you'll always be perfect, but it means our perfect Savior will always be with you.
Friend, do you know him?
Are you following Jesus?
Because if you're not, I wonder if you make that decision today.
I'm going to pray this prayer.
Actually, we're all going to pray in a moment.
And it's a powerful prayer because it changes everything about our lives and everything about our future.
But first, it's a decision.
A decision to say, you know what?
I'm not right with God.
I'm not where I should be.
I'm not following Him, but you know you need to.
Then as we pray, why just close your eyes one more time?
And if you're in this place and you know I'm speaking to you, you're not right with God, but you want to be.
You're not right with Jesus, but you know you need to.
You need to follow Him.
Maybe you once knew what it was like to follow God.
But if you've grown distant, you become cold, you've walked away from God.
Well, today, friend, is your day to come home.
Maybe there's other people.
You've been attending church, but you've never made the conscious decision to put Jesus first in your life.
I believe today is your day.
So I'm going to count as three.
And wherever you're standing in this place, if you're saying to Him, when you pray that prayer, I want you to pray with me.
I want you to do one thing.
Bolden courageously.
As we were talking about today, when I count the three, I want you to raise your hand high enough and long enough so I can see it.
So I know who I'm praying with.
That's one part of it.
The second part of it is sometimes you're just going to tell yourself, this is the decision I'm making.
Some of you are already in the body like I know I should, but I can't.
I know I should, but I can't.
There's this outward action saying, God, I want to choose to follow you.
If I know this part of me that believes this and I want to start, take that first step to following God, friend.
He loves you.
Nothing you've done could ever, ever stop him from loving you.
His grace is big enough, his grace is strong enough.
You, today's your day to say yes to him.
So the count of three, if you're saying yes to him, when you pray that prayer, pray with me.
Would you raise your hand?
Come on, one, two, if that's you, right now, three, all across this place, lift it up, wonderful.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Thank you, up the back there.
Bunch of people.
Come on, if that's you, awesome.
There's a bunch of heads.
Here's what we're doing in this church.
We've got time, we want to pray with you like I said.
So the team, they're going to lead us in a song and as they do that, I wonder if you grab a friend, and I just want to pray for you here.
And we're going to just take a moment and then the team, we've got a gift they're going to give you.
But come on, as we sing this song, if you made that decision to say yes to Jesus, come on, why don't you come out of your seat?
If you're with a friend, ask them, hey, I'll come with you.
If you've brought someone to church, hey, do you want to come meet Jesus?
Not Tim, I'm going to introduce you to Jesus.
But come on, one more church in time, can we give him big hand?
As you come, come on.
There's still people coming, fantastic.
I'm going to get your pastor lead you in this prayer.
And if you didn't come down and you raised your hand, that's okay, but I pray you would.
The team got something for you.
I was a 17-year-old rebellious kid who was in church.
I got tricked into getting to a service one time.
And it was in this moment like this where someone stopped and said, hey, if you still need to come down, you should come down.
And with a few words, I can't say in church anymore under my breath.
I said, okay, God, you win.
And I stepped forward.
I never regretted it since.
So we're going to sing this one more time.
And as the team do that, if I'm talking to you and you know you need to make your life right with Jesus, you come on down and then Pastor John's going to lead in this prayer.
But one more time, come on.
Thanks, church.
Not an accident you're here today, God has orchestrated this moment in your life.
We're gonna pray a very simple but powerful prayer today that's gonna move you from your old life to a new life.
Maybe you didn't come out of your chair, that's totally fine.
It's not about that, it's about what goes on here in your heart.
So we're gonna say this prayer together out loud.
Dear Lord Jesus, thank you for dying for me to forgive all my sins and failures.
I believe that you rose from the dead.
so that I can have a brand new life.
Please come into my heart and help me by the power of the Holy Spirit to trust and to live for you.
Amen.
Can we congratulate these amazing individuals at the front?
And we've got a gift for you.
This is Ben over here on my left, you're right.
And there's a little quiet chapel there.
We're going to give you a Bible and give you some information about the next steps for you to take to follow Jesus.
Then you're going to come straight back.
So Ben gives away one more time.
You guys are going to head that.
We're going to give you a Bible and then we'll see you back in the service in just a minute.
Come on, let's really cheer them as they head into their new life in Christ.
Amen.
I love it when people take that step, that first step and say yes to Jesus.
Can we thank Pastor Tim Douglas for a brilliant faith film, Word for the New Year.
I was challenged and I love it when I get to sit and receive the Word of God.
And I was just so blessed and what God's doing for Tim and Nicola
I really believe God's going to give them just doors of influence and God's going to really use you and help many other churches, not just your own church, but many other churches as we navigate these times.
So thank you.
We love you both.
And one more time.
Can we just bless him and just bless him and love on him?
What a great word.
All right.
Well, in fact, why don't we just stretch our heads?
I love to pray for
Those who just, Father, we just thank you for those who've made that brave, bold decision today to adhere in about today, that courage.
You place courage within them to come out of their seats, Lord, but they wanna just come out of their seats.
They are walking away from their old life and they're walking into a brand new life.
We thank you, Father God, that you will keep them, Father God.
They're not just decisions today, they're disciples of Jesus.
Amen.
Thanks again for tuning in.
If you said yes to Jesus today by saying the Salvation Prayer, we'd love for you to email connections at soulchurch.com.
So we can talk to you a little bit more about this incredible decision you've just made.
And if at any point in the service, you felt moved to give towards any of our local or global initiatives, head to soulchurch.com.
And don't forget to stay connected with us on Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube by searching at Soul Church UK.
Take care and God bless.